Added Android App Docs (#365)
highfidelity/hifi-docs-grav-content: 02.explore/01.get-started/05.android-app/docs.md

---
title: Explore With An Android Device
taxonomy:
    category: docs 
---
An unreleased version of High Fidelity is currently [available to download](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.highfidelity.hifiinterface) for Daydream-enabled Android devices.
 
>>>> Compatibility: The app is designed for Daydream-ready phones only. However, it cannot be used in Daydream View and is only available as a 2d application.
 
As an unreleased app, it does not have the full functionality of the desktop or VR version of High Fidelity. However, you are able to explore a number of worlds, attend events, change avatars, and connect with friends directly from your phone.
 
**On This Page**
* [Visit Different Worlds](#visit-worlds)
* [Movement Controls](#movement-controls)
* [Additional Controls](#additional-controls)
* [Avatar Controls](#avatar-controls)
* [Discover and Make Friends](#discover-and-make-friends)

## Visit Different Worlds

> * We have modified several of High Fidelity's most popular domains to make them more accessible for Android users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* High Fidelity has many virtual places where you can interact with other users and participate in various activities or events. We have modified several of High Fidelity's most popular virtual worlds to make them more accessible to Android users.
```

> * Under the **Home** tab in the menu, users will find the domains we have optimized for Android

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find these domains by going to the **Home** tab in the menu.
```

![](androidapp2.png)  

## Movement Controls

> * **Walking** - When exploring a domain, use the arrows in the bottom left corner to turn and/or walk 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Action       | Controls|
|--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Walking      | When exploring a virtual world, use the arrows in the bottom left corner to turn and/or walk.                           |
| Turning      | Drag your finger left or right across the screen to make your avatar turn.                                       |
| Look up/down | Drag your finger up or down to change the angle of the camera.                                                   |
| Flying       | Press the button on the bottom right with the winged avatar to fly (the longer you hold it, the higher you go!). |
```

Reviewer: Just following the format for controls in other pages

> * **Turning** - Drag your finger left or right across the screen to make your avatar turn

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> * **Look up/down** - Drag your finger up or down to change the angle of the camera

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> * **Flying** - Press the button on the bottom right with the winged avatar to fly (the longer you hold it, the higher you go!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ## Additional Controls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## In-World Controls
```

> * **View** - Switch to a bird's eye view camera by pressing the **My View** button in the top right of the screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Action | Controls|
|--------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| View   | Switch to a bird's eye view camera by pressing the **My View** button on the top right corner of the screen.   |
| Mute   | Your avatar in muted by default when you open the app. Press the mic button on the top right corner to unmute. |
```

> * **Mute** - Your avatar in muted by default when you open the app, simply press the mic button in the top right to unmute

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Avatar Controls

> * **Change Your Avatar** - From the **Avatar** tab in the menu, you can switch your avatar to one from the pre-selected list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Action             | Controls|
|--------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Change Your Avatar | Change your avatar to one available in the list in the **Avatar** tab in the menu. |
| Set Display Name   | Set your display name in the **Avatar** tab in the menu.                              |
```

> * **Set Display Name** - From the **Avatar** tab, you can set a display name

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Discover and Make Friends

> * **Handshake** - In High Fidelity, you can add people to your connections list by shaking their hand. To shake hands using the Android app press the handshake button above the flight button in the bottom right of the screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Action           | Controls                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Handshake        | `Add people to your Connections <../socialize.html#make-connections-and-friends>`_ by shaking their hand. Press the handshake button which is above the flight button in the bottom right corner of your screen. |
| Connections List | Open the **People** tab in the menu to view your Connections.                                                                                                                                                                |
```

> * **Connections List** - Open the **People** tab form the menu to view the friends you've made

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Additional functionality such as opening the tablet, create/edit mode, adding wearables, etc. are not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional functionality such as opening the Tablet, using the **Create** Tools app, adding wearables, etc. are not available.
```
